# novoBreak

*Run Novobreak to detect interchromosomal breakpoints*

novoBreak is a structural variant detection tool which outputs VCF files indicating locations of interchromosomal translocations,
among other events.  We apply it here to detect virus integration in the TCGA-BA-4077-01 dataset.

## Data Preparation

novoBreak requires both a tumor and normal data file.  The TCGA-BA-4077-01 is a tumor sample, but the corresponding normal is not
readily available.  Instead, we create a "synthetic normal" consisting of a small number of reads generated by `wgsim` (distributed with samtools)
obtained from the human+virus reference.  This BAM file is generated in steps `1_make_synthetic_normal.sh` and `2_align_synthetic_reads.sh`.

For performance reasons (speed as well as memory requirements), we focus novoBreak analysis on regions of interest detected by prior analyses,
the integration of HPV16 virus into chromsome 14.  Steps `3_make_ROI_BAM.sh` and `4_merge_ROI_BAM.sh` create a "reduced" BAM file with reads
only from the following region of interest,
```
14:68633616-68791484 
gi|310698439|ref|NC_001526.2|:1-7905 (HPV16)
```

The result of the novoBreak analysis is the VCF file `dat/novobreak/TCGA-BA-4077-01B-01D-2268-08/novoBreak.pass.flt.vcf`

## novoBreak Details
Binary: `https://sourceforge.net/projects/novobreak/`
Source: `git clone https://git.code.sf.net/p/novobreak/git novobreak-git`

Reference: 

[Chong, Z. et al. novoBreak: local assembly for breakpoint detection in cancer genomes.  Nature Methods, 2017](http://doi.org/10.1038/nmeth.4084)

## Configuration

Define location of installation directory `NOVOBREAK_DIR` in `../bps.config` or `../bps.config.local` as,
```
NOVOBREAK_DIR="/gscuser/mwyczalk/src/novoBreak_distribution_v1.1.3rc"
```
